---
title: useSprint
description: Animate elements using spring animations.
---

useSpring is a simpler hook than [useMotion](/api/use-motion) and makes it possible to animate HTML or SVG Elements in your Vue components using spring animations.

Spring animations often feel more natural and fluid compared to linear animations, as they are based on the physics of a spring in the real world.

Springs maintain continuity for both static cases and cases with an initial velocity. This allows spring animations to adapt smoothly to user interactions like gestures.

useSpring can be bound to a HTML or SVG element, or to a simple object.

It skips the [Variants](/features/variants) system, allowing it to be as performant as using Popmotion natively, but with a nicer **API** to play with Vue refs.

## Parameters

### `values`

The values argument expects a `motionProperties` object, which can be created using the [useMotionProperties](/api/use-motion-properties) function.

### `spring`

Spring animations can be configured in multiple ways, using spring options. The most intuitive way is using `duration` and `bounce`. Alternatively, you can use `stiffness`, `mass`, and `damping` to configure a spring animation.

Under the hood, `useSpring` uses **Popmotion**. See [Spring options in Popmotion](https://popmotion.io/#quick-start-animation-animate-spring-options) for a full list of spring options.

Passing a `string` argument is optional. A default spring will be applied if you do not specify it.

## Exposed

### `values`

Values are an object representing the current state from your spring animations.

### `set`

Set is function allowing you to mutate the values with the transition specified as spring parameter.

### `stop`

Stop is a function allowing you to stop all the ongoing animations for the spring.

## Example

In the example below, click the green box to animate it, or press the escape key to stop the animation.

```html
<template>
  <div class="container" tabindex="0" @keyup.esc="stop()">
    <div ref="box" class="box" @click="animate">Click me</div>
  </div>
</template>

<script setup>
import { ref } from 'vue'
import { useSpring, useMotionProperties } from '@vueuse/motion'

const box = ref(null)

const { motionProperties } = useMotionProperties(box, {
  x: 0,
  y: 0,
})

const { set, stop } = useSpring(motionProperties, {
    duration: 1000,
    bounce: 0.0,
})

function animate() {
  set({
    x: Math.random() * 400,
    y: Math.random() * 400,
  })
}
</script>
  
<style scoped>
.container {
  width: 500px;
  height: 500px;
  outline: 2px solid #41B883;
}
.box {
  width: 100px;
  height: 100px;
  display: flex;
  justify-content: center;
  align-items: center;
  background-color: #41B883;
  color: white;
}
</style>

```
