---
title: Component usage
description: Directly use motions using components
---

vueuse/motion allows you to implement your animations directly within the template of your components without the need to wrap target elements in any additional components.

These components work similar to the directive `v-motion` usage but work better in projects using server-side rendering.

## `<Motion>`

Example of a `<Motion>` component using a motion preset on a `<p>` element:

```vue
<template>
  <Motion is="p" preset="slideVisibleLeft">Text in Motion!</Motion>
</template>
```

<MotionComponent></MotionComponent>

## `<MotionGroup>`

The `<MotionGroup>` can be used to apply motion configuration to all of its child elements, this component is renderless by default and can be used as a wrapper by passing a value to the `:is` prop.

```vue
<template>
  <MotionGroup preset="slideVisibleLeft" :duration="600">
    <section>
      <h3>Product 1</h3>
      <p>Description text</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <h3>Product 2</h3>
      <p>Description text</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <h3>Product 3</h3>
      <p>Description text</p>
    </section>
  </MotionGroup>
</template>
```

<MotionGroupComponent></MotionGroupComponent>


## Props

The `<Motion>` and `<MotionGroup>` components allow you to define animation properties (variants) as props.

- **`is`**: What element should rendered (`div` by default for `<Motion>`).
- **`preset`**: Motion preset to use (expects camel-case string), see [Presets](/features/presets).

### Variant props

- **`initial`**: Properties the element will have before it is mounted.
- **`enter`**: Properties the element will have after it is mounted.
- **`visible`**: Properties the element will have whenever it is within view. Once out of view, the `initial` properties are reapplied.
- **`visible-once`**: Properties the element will have once it enters the view.
- **`hovered`**: Properties the element will have when hovered.
- **`focused`**: Properties the element will have when it receives focus.
- **`tapped`**: Properties the element will have upon being clicked or tapped.

Variants can be passed as an object using the `:variants` prop.

The `:variants` prop combines with other variant properties, allowing for the definition of custom variants from this object.

Additional variant properties can be explored on the [Variants](/features/variants) page.

### Shorthand Props

We support shorthand props for quickly setting transition properties:

- **`delay`**
- **`duration`**

These properties apply to `visible`, `visible-once`, or `enter` variants if specified; otherwise, they default to the `initial` variant.

```vue
<template>
  <Motion
    :initial="{ opacity: 0, y: 100 }"
    :enter="{ opacity: 1, y: 0, scale: 1 }"
    :variants="{ custom: { scale: 2 } }"
    :hovered="{ scale: 1.2 }"
    :delay="200"
    :duration="1200"
  >
    Content to animate!
  </Motion>
</template>
```

